1. Review. (20 pts)
(a) System Properties. To get you ready for Ch.9 in which we will introduce another way to test
system properties, let us review
i. (4 pts) Suppose a system is described by the following I/O relationship:
y(t) = ∞∫t x(τ − 1)dτ
Without transforming this system into another system description (e.g. h(t) or H(jω)), is
this system causal? Is this system stable? Justify your answers.
ii. (4 pts) Suppose an LTI system is described by the following impulse response:
h(t) = (δ(t) + 2δ(t− 1)) ∗ (δ(t) − δ(t− 2))
Without transforming this system into another system description (e.g. I/O or H(jω)), is
this system causal? Is this system stable? Justify your answers.
(b) LTI System Output. To get you ready for Ch.9, in which we will introduce another way to find the
output of an LTI system, let us review the three different ways we have learned so far to evaluate
the output.
i. (4 pts) x(t) = e−tu(t) and h(t) = u(t) − 2u(t− 1) + u(t− 3). Using convolution in the time
domain, find y(t). Show that y(t) = 
0, t < 0
1 − e−t, 0 < t < 1
2e−(t−1) − e−t − 1, 1 < t < 3
2e−(t−1) − e−t − e−(t−3), t > 3
ii. (4 pts) x(t) = ∞∑ k=−∞
δ(t− k π/2) and h(t) = 4sinc(8t)e^j(6t). Using Fourier Series, find y(t).
Hint: You will need to find H(jω) to solve this problem.
Show that y(t) = 1 + ej4t + ej8t + ej12t.
iii. (4 pts) x(t) = e−3tu(t)−2te−3tu(t) and h(t) = 4e−tu(t)−2e−2tu(t). Using Fourier Transforms,
find y(t).



2. Modulation. (16 pts) The purpose of these problems is to get you comfortable walking through a block
diagram consisting of modulation (by cosine) systems.
(a) (4 pts) Consider a signal x(t) with Fourier Transform X(jω) that is input to a system consisting
of LTI and modulation systems as shown below:
Sketch the output Fourier Transform Y (jω).
Hint: The output will consist of two pieces with an amplitude of 14 .
(b) (4 pts) Consider a signal x(t) with Fourier Transform X(jω) that is input to a system consisting
of LTI and modulation systems as shown below:
Sketch the output Fourier Transform Y (jω).
(c) Let us now tackle the problem of deducing an unknown system:
Using only LTI systems and/or modulation systems, draw the full system diagram that produces
the output Fourier Transform Y (jω) given a known input Fourier Transform X(jω) below. If you
use LTI systems, please make sure to sketch the corresponding frequency response H(jω) that is
required.
i. (4 pts) Unknown System #1:
ii. (4 pts) Unknown System #2:



3. Demodulation. (26 pts) The purpose of this problem is to apply what you have learned about mod-
ulation by cosine to design a demodulation system to recover an input or obtain some other desired
result.
(a) Consider the following block diagram:
i. (4 pts) Sketch the output spectrum Y (jω). Precisely label all points and axes.
ii. X(jω) can be recovered from Y (jω) using a single modulator followed by an ideal LPF with
frequency response Hr(jω). Answer the following questions:
A. (4 pts) Draw the block diagram for this system. Clearly specify the modulation signal,
as well as the filter gain A and cutoff frequency wc for the ideal LPF.
B. (2 pts) Note that several cutoff frequencies wc are valid for (A). What range of cutoff
frequencies wc can be used to fully recover x(t) from y(t)?
(b) (4 pts) Suppose the output of a modulation system is given by Y (jω) below. Draw the demodu-
lation system that will recover the desired input again, shown below as Xr(jω):
(c) We briefly learned in class that modulation is useful for different radio stations to send radio
signals out simultaneously. This is a process called frequency division multiplexing, which we will
practice with below.
i. (4 pts) Consider the following frequency division multiplexing system that can be used to
transmit multiple signals at the same time:
Draw the overall output Fourier Transform Y (jω) produced by this system.
ii. (4 pts) Suppose a receiver picks up a signal r(t) whose Fourier Transform is given below:
We can get back the received triangle signal x1(t) using the system below. The idea is to first
filter out the desired signal and then shift it back to the center around frequency ω = 0:
Sketch the output Fourier Transform Xr1(jω) of this system.
iii. (4 pts) You will notice the system has an error in the output amplitude. What change can
be made to the receiver system to get the desired amplitude back up to 1? Note: there are
several answers to this question.



4. Impulse Train Sampling System. (34 pts) The purpose of this problem is to get you comfortable walk-
ing through a block diagram consisting of an impulse train sampling system and to visually understand
the concept of aliasing.
(a) x(t) undergoes impulse train sampling through the following system below:
Answer the following questions:
i. (2 pts) What is the sampling frequency ωs used by this system? What is the equation for the
output Fourier Transform Xs(jω) in terms of X(jω)?
Show that ωs = 10 and Xs(jω) = 5π ∞ ∑ k=−∞ X(j(ω − 10k))
ii. (4 pts) Using your equation from (i), sketch the output spectrum Xs(jω) vs. ω. Make sure
to label all critical points.
iii. (2 pts) Using your sketch from (ii) and your understanding of the concept of aliasing, explain
why this is an example of sampling with no aliasing.
(b) Now consider the following system diagram with a different impulse train and input x(t):
Answer the following questions:
i. (4 pts) What is the sampling frequency fs (not ωs!) used by this system? What is the
equation for the output Fourier Transform Xs(jω) in terms of X(jω)?
ii. (4 pts) Using your equation from (i), sketch the output spectrum Xs(jω) vs. ω. Make sure
to label all critical points.
Note: you need to first find and sketch X(jω).
iii. (2 pts) Using your sketch from (ii), does aliasing of x(t) occur? Justify your answer.
(c) Now consider the following system consisting of both modulation and impulse train sampling
systems:
i. (4 pts) What is the sampling period Ts used by the impulse train sampling system? What
is the equation for X1(jω) in terms of X(jω)? What is the equation for Y (jω) in terms of
X1(jω)?
ii. (4 pts) Sketch the final output spectrum Y (jω) vs. ω. Make sure to label all critical points.
iii. (4 pts) Using your sketch, is it possible to recover the original input x(t) from y(t)? If so,
draw or describe a system diagram that will do this. Make sure to clearly specify all system
blocks being used either in words or with a graph.
(d) (4 pts) Using your knowledge of the behavior of impulse train sampling systems, draw the ap-
propriate system diagram that will produce the following input-output pair. Justify your design
choices.
Make sure to clearly specify your systems with an equation, description, or graph.



5. Sampling Theorem and Aliasing. (28 pts) The purpose of this problem is to apply the sampling theorem
to determine how much to sample a continuous-time signal by to avoid aliasing.
(a) Every signal x(t) has a so-called Nyquist rate ωN used to determine the sampling rate ωs needed
to avoid aliasing. What is the Nyquist rate ωN for each of the following signals below?
i. (2 pts) x(t) = sinc(5000t) ∗ cos(5πt)
Show that ωN = 10π
ii. (4 pts) x(t) = sin(10πt) cos(10πt)10πt
iii. (2 pts) x(t) = sinc(5000t) + cos(5πt)
(b) Signal x(t) undergoes impulse train sampling. Using the sampling theorem, what should the
sampling period Ts be for each sampling system below to avoid aliasing? Justify your answer.
i. (2 pts) System #1: Show that we need Ts < π/10
ii. (2 pts) System #2:
iii. (2 pts) System #3:
(c) Consider an impulse train sampling with a fixed sampling period as shown below:
For each input signal x(t) below, what range of values should the unknown parameter ωx satisfy
so that x(t) can be recovered uniquely from its samples in xs(t)? Justify your answer.
i. (2 pts) x(t) = sinc(ωxt)
Show that we need ωx < 100.
ii. (2 pts) x(t) = sinc2(ωxt)
iii. (2 pts) x(t) is generated from the system below:
(d) In the real-world, signals are not bandlimited in frequency ω and hence must undergo pre-filtering
before sampling for perfect reconstruction. Answer the following questions for each ideal pre-filter
and impulse train sampling system below:
i. (4 pts) System #1: Consider an ideal pre-filter with unknown cutoff frequency ωc and an
impulse train sampling system with a fixed sampling period Ts:
What range of cutoff frequencies ωc in the pre-filter are allowed that will prevent aliasing?
Justify your answer.
ii. (4 pts) System #2: Consider an idea pre-filter with known cutoff frequency ωc and an impulse
train sampling system with unknown paramters:
What should the sampling period Ts of the impulse train sampling system be to avoid aliasing?
Justify your answer.



